we are in a great spot with laptops
right now because all the competitors in
this space are making such good devices
that if you're buying a new high-end
laptop this year chances are you're
buying something awesome cuz we have
four completely different chips that are
just excellent we have Apple's custom
silicon we have new chips from AMD their
HX 300 series uh we have new chips from
Qualcomm the Snapdragon exite and we
also have finally new chips from Intel
that don't suck they're lunar L chips
and all of them are competitive like
they're truly energy efficient powerful
devices and they're just they're awesome
the thing is there is an inconvenience
to this whole circumstance and to fully
understand the problem at hand we have
to kind of go into how good these
devices actually are so you've probably
seen a chart like this before it's
showing cinebench performance across
several devices and cinebench is a
benchmarking program that's used by
companies and by reviewers like myself
to just like a quick and dirty way to
show you the topend performance of the
these chips it's neat but it's not a
good representation of how we actually
use laptops like typically when a person
buys a thin and light laptop like
something like this you're it's idling
you're just using the laptop in a very
chill and relaxed State you may be like
typing a document or going through
emails or browsing the web the truth is
most people aren't looking for faster
and faster laptops we just aren't what
does matter though is Energy Efficiency
and that is where these new devices
really shine these new chips are so good
at just sipping battery on very light
tasks Now power consumption does go up a
little bit if you're streaming videos
but it's very rare if ever that an
average user will take one of these thin
and light devices and just go full blast
on it but Energy Efficiency gives you
something that's awesome battery life
and the battery life on these devices
just so much better than laptops of the
past like it's something that Apple has
had the crown for for four years at this
point but today they're all really good
in terms of battery life and in addition
to battery life the other thing that
Energy Efficiency gives you is battery
health like if you aren't charging these
things as frequently over the course of
ownership of these things you're just
the health of the battery pack is just
going to be better if you're charging it
half as often right and so also with
Energy Efficiency you get an easier
device to cool these things don't run as
hot so there's less thermal strain on
the components but also you get thinner
heat sinks you get fewer fans quieter
fans so these systems are quiet now
they're not silent only the MacBook airs
are a true fanless system all the
windows devices still have fans but
they're way better than before now if
you're curious about battery drain when
the devices are closed like when the
lids are closed up uh it's it's
inconsistent I've done a bunch of
testing on this the anecdotal kind of uh
conclusion that I'm going to draw is
that it's nothing to do with the
hardware from the manufacturers it's
entirely to do with Windows I feel like
sometimes the battery dra is acceptable
it's like perfectly fine and other times
it's awful with no Rhyme or Reason now I
think Apple does it really well I think
they control both the hardware and the
software so they're able to tune that
whole battery drain when the lid is
closed way better uh but if that's
really important to you Windows just
sucks at that I I don't know if they'll
ever fix it you also get really good
gpus across the board now Apple M3 chips
are capable in terms of Hardware but
because there's not a lot of games you
got to run like game porting toolkit to
be able to pull it off uh so if games
are really important to you obviously
don't get the MacBook and sa with the
Snapdragon chips they're it's got decent
gaming performance but still there's
some games that don't run all that well
on the Arm based chips uh but the other
two chips the new AMD and Intel ones get
really good frame rates especially for
devices that aren't even marketed as
gaming laptops right like if you're a
kid's trying to con your parents into
buying you a gaming laptop you don't
have to use that word you just these are
just really good for doing that stuff
the onboard GPU of the new Intel chips
are particularly impressive to me like
obviously great frame rates but the
thing that's most interesting is just
how little energy it uses to able to
pull that off even on Intel's slides
like when they first showed that stuff I
was everyone was skeptical right it's
like that's not possible for a company
let alone Intel to pull off but it's
legit I can only imagine that the next
generation of gaming handhelds that use
these gpus from Intel like I think
there'll be something special but
absolutely just very impressive GPU
performance uh from Intel's lunar Lake
now a quick note about RAM and storage
so typically when it came to Windows
laptops of the past one of the biggest
advantages that they'd have is that you
you have removable or upgradeable RAM
and storage right and Apple devices
didn't have that luxury but nowadays you
still have removable storage on all the
windows devices or most of the windows
devices but almost all of them don't
have removable Ram anymore all the new
ones most of that Ram is now soldered
onto the motherboard or the chip itself
I don't think it's a deal breaker but it
is unfortunate the Silver Lining though
is that all the new windows devices
start at 16 GB of RAM or more I think
that was a requirement that Microsoft
put out for their kind of uh Windows
co-pilot programs that if any new device
that is going to be part of this thing
you got to have 16 GB or more which is
good in that sense uh Apple still has
her 8 GB MacBook Air models at the entry
level which is it's continuously
frustrating I think this is the last
year that they do that they do it now
Apple intelligence does run like their
AI stuff does run at 8 gbes of RAM on
their like systemwide AI stuff but if
you're a developer and you want to use
any of their AI like generative code so
code complete or Swift assist you need
16 gigs of RAM so if you're a developer
and you're looking at a Macbook and you
want to use any of that generative AI
code stuff 16 gigs or more now I only
bring this up so that people who are
looking for that feature in X code are
aware of the ram requirements I am
firmly in the camp of like do not buy a
laptop or a change hardware for its AI
capabilities like I I'm I'm still there
if anything I think Windows co-pilot is
a complete scam that's a whole separate
conversation okay the last thing I want
to talk about in terms of Hardware are
the displays so MacBook airs the
entry-level products from Apple have IPS
panels they're okay in terms of image
quality and they are energy efficient
displays but when you compare them side
by side with any of the OLED panels that
are often available with the new windows
devices OLED just looks so much better
and a lot of them are running at higher
refresh rates if you want to play
fast-paced games they look awesome on
these windows devices uh so if you're
talking about like a my favorite pick if
I had to choose like one of the four
chips that I think is just like most
interesting for me it's the lunar Lake
chips they are so awesome this year like
I think the Energy Efficiency is
excellent uh and also the wider
availability like as nice as the AMD
stuff is they're just not a lot of
devices and if you want you know Apple's
chips like there's only one company that
makes it with Windows uh or sorry with
Intel's chips like there's just so many
companies that have adopted this new
second generation of core Ultra that
it's like I like I like Choice that's
really nice to be able to see that in
terms of just like actual devices I like
the S14 a lot from Asus I think this is
like it's super thin super light but in
terms of just like crazy battery life I
did a dedicated video on this but the
the Lenovo Yoga slim 7i this is like
it's longer lasting than even a 15-inch
MacBook a in terms of like just raw
battery life so everything I've talked
about so far paints these laptops in a
really nice light right we have a lot of
options to choose from they're all
performant they're all energy efficient
it's great but the one piece of this
conversation that kind of guides this
whole thing is pricing and the pricing
for all these laptops is expensive these
start at like 12,300 bucks and they go
up and here's the thing if you have a
huge budget and you can buy a $1,300
laptop that's awesome it's a great year
to buy a device but for most people you
have a more normal budget and let's say
you want to buy a device that's like you
know6 to maybe $800 in price so that's
where things become inconvenient so
typically when you have a smaller budget
6 800 bucks you would just buy a product
that's like 2 years older or maybe last
year's device right something that's
previous generation that you know you
get most of the good stuff you don't
miss out on much buying the last the
last year's product but now in the
landscape of laptops we have right now
the previous generation of product like
last year's laptops especially in the
windows space they suck in comparison to
the new stuff and it almost doesn't even
make sense to buy one of those things so
typically let's say you buy like you
know let's say you get like a 12th gen
or 13th gen Intel Core i7 laptop that
would run you8 n00 bucks maybe maybe a
little bit cheaper than that but that is
a significantly worse product than these
things like you get much worse battery
life you get a harder device that will
probably have more thermal stress on its
unit you'll have you know louder fans
you have a worse GPU like it truly I
would say that most people if you're
going to buy a 12 gen or 13th gen Intel
laptop right now you're going to regret
it like you'll absolutely be like God
damn it I just wasted this money buying
a previous generation and it's because
the new stuff is so much better so
here's the weird thing I was asked very
recently just a few my friends like what
laptop should I buy right now 700 bucks
and I looked at this the what options we
have and the thing is I landed on a
MacBook an M1 MacBook from 2020 it's
crazy like never ever have I been like
hey you want a budget option MacBook
never has that been the thing but in the
the way we have Windows laptops right
now it just does not make sense to buy
in that space it's super inconvenient
for people that are budget limited like
that which is a lot of right that's the
most that's where the most purchasing
happens in that range and you're just
locked out if you if that's your budget
if that's a hard limit of 800 bucks you
are locked out from the good Tech and I
just really do not recommend buying any
of the older stuff it's just too big of
a gap in terms of performance and just
everything across the board okay there
you have it that's my take on the
current landscape of laptop